What if you could merge 600 commits on a
single day and none of it was slopp?
This is what today's guest, Peter
Stainberger, the creator of Claudebot,
claims he's doing. Peter is a standout
developer who built PSP PDF kit, the PDF
framework used on more than 1 billion
devices. Then he burned out, sold his
shares, and disappeared from tech for 3
years. This year, he came back and how
he builds and what he's doing now looks
nothing like traditional software
development. In today's episode, we
cover why he no longer reads most of the
code he ships, and why that's not as
crazy as it sounds. How he is building
Clawbot, his wildly popular personal
assistant project, which feels like the
future of Siri, the closing the loop
principle that separates effective AI
assistant coding from frustrating vibe
coding. Why he says code reviews are
dead and PR should be called prompt
requests, and many more. If you're
interested in how the software engine
workflow could change in the coming
years thanks to AI, this episode is for
you. This episode is presented by
Statsig, the unified platform for flags,
analytics experiments, and more. Check
out the show notes to learn more about
them, the pragmatic summit on the 11th
February in San Francisco that I'm
hosting with them, and our other season
sponsors. Right, Pete, welcome to the
podcast.
>> Thanks for having me, Gay.
>> It is awesome to meet you in in person.
>> Yeah, and I almost messed it up.
>> Yeah. What what what what happened? You
lost track of time. Does that happen
often? And how how so? Um, not usually.
Not usually. Um, this is an interesting
time for me cuz I cuz my latest project
is is blowing up. Cloud, right?
>> Clawbot. Yeah,
>> Cloudbot.
>> I'm struggling a bit to get enough
sleep, but it's it's it's interesting. I
never I never had a community blowing up
so fast and it's just incredibly fun to
work with.
>> So, before we we get into Clubbot and
all the fun stuff you're doing, I wanted
to rewind all the way way back. You
create a PSPDF kit which is used I think
on more than 1 billion devices users. If
if you see a PDF render you probably see
that. But even before that how did you
get into tech? Oh my god. How did you
get into tech? So I'm from rural
Austria. Um always more being the
introvert.
So eventually I we always had like
summer guests and one of them one of
them was a was a computer nerd and then
I kind of got hooked with with like the
machine he had and begged my mom to buy
me one
and ever since then I this was in high
school or so.
>> I guess I was 14.
>> Yeah. And ever since I started
tinkering, like I can remember the
earliest thing was like I stole an old
DOS game from my school and then wrote a
copy protection for the floppy disc so I
could sell it.
It took like 2 minutes to load. I was
just always tinkering. Also playing a
lot of computer games of course, but
like building stuff almost feels like
playing a computer game. Like definitely
right now it feels better than Factorio.
Oh, when I started out, I I I I read
like
the equivalent of bash scripts for
Windows and then I did like websites.
So, I guess a little bit of JavaScript,
uh, even though I had no clue what I was
doing. And then the actual first
language where I I had to learn how to
build things is when I started
university.
And I never met my dad. And I come from
a from a poor family. So, I always had
to work. like I had to had to finance my
own studies, right? So when other people
were were having holiday, I just worked
full-time at a company. So the the first
real job I had was was in Vienna was
supposed to be 1 months and then they
kept me for 6 months. It was just a
bridge between military and and my
university. And I kept working there for
like I think 5 years. And I remember the
first day they they gave me this huge
book. maybe that huge and say Microsoft
MFC. Um I still have nightmares and I
got I got like I was like this is
terrible like for for the next win I
just I just silently used net I just
didn't tell them and like a few months
in I just told them yeah but the text I
I did a few modernizations but then it
was too late. I did this a few times in
this company. I don't know why they kept
me because because my [__] worked. So uh
I did net and actually I actually
actually dig it.NET 2.0 had like
generics. It took insanely long for the
application to to to launch because like
everything was compiled at first start
and like your hard disk was like
if you remember
>> so so you you how did you stumble into
both iOS and where did the idea from
PSPDF
>> come from?
>> Not even yeah the first one the first
one wasn't even available in in in
Austria. That's true. Yeah.
>> A little time goes went on and I was at
university and a friend showed me the
iPhone and I I think I I touched it for
a minute and then immediately bought one
like like this like it it clicked when I
felt it and and to me this was like a
holy f moment cuz it was just like so
different and so much better. So I got I
got one. I was still not thinking about
building for it, you know. That was that
was
>> when was this 2009 10 something like
that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And then I I used their
browser. I I can see the story. I was I
was literally driving in the subway.
>> Mhm.
>> And by the time I was using a gay dating
app and this was iPhone OS 2.
>> Yeah.
>> So So I I
>> long time ago
>> I typed this long message. I pressed
send and we were just going into a
tunnel and the JavaScript disabled the
send button and then an error message
came but there was no copy paste. There
was no screenshot. So I was just like
and I couldn't scroll anymore because
like scrolling was disabled. So like
this long message was like a little bit
emotional was gone and I was so mad. I
was so mad. I'm like what the hell? I
went home and I downloaded Xcode. That's
that's where that's where the window
came and I was like where is the ID?
So it was like like I was like this is
unacceptable. I basically hacked the
website. I used regular expressions to
like download uh to parse the HTML which
is like totally not something you should
do and I built an app and I used I used
iPhone OS3 beta with like core data in
beta regaxit light. I used a hacked
version of GCC that backported the
blocks compiler so I could use blocks in
iPhone OS3. It took me quite a while
until anything worked because like I had
no idea what I was doing and I was like
using all kind of like beta tech but
eventually I I got it to work and I I I
wrote that company was like hey I'm
making an app. What do you think about
it? Got no response of course. So I was
like let's just put it in the app store.
>> And this was for the dating app right?
>> Yeah.
>> So you just like you know you looked at
you saw their APIs you could just like
easily like build a client on top
>> API. It was HTML.
>> Oh
>> I was I was just literally parsing HTML.
>> Oh. So, so you kind of parse the HTML,
kind of turn it into your own, you know,
like you use it as an API. Oh, clever. I
mean, this was back in the day where no
one thought this this would happen, but
I made I put it in the app store. I
charged five bucks for it and I made
like 10k in the first month.
And I had no clue what I was doing. So,
and there was like so many complex tech
stuff. This was very early on where
there was a lot of weird forums on
Apple.
>> So, I just put in the the bank account
of my grandpa. And then one day my
grandpa called me, "Yeah, something is
weird. Like I got this huge payment from
Apple." I'm like, "This is mine. This is
mine. Don't touch it." But the the funny
thing was when I this blew off and I
remember I was in a club one day and
like I saw someone using my app and I
was so proud and I wanted to like tap
him on the shoulder and say I built this
and I thought like that would be really
weird. So I didn't. And then I I I went
to the company I worked for for 5 years
and told him like I'm going to pursue
this. This is this is really exciting.
And my boss was like mocking me.
>> Oh, really?
>> They're like, "Oh, you're making a
mistake. This is a fat. This will not
go." Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And
you know what that got me? That's what
you call a chip on your shoulder. I'm
like,
>> you know, one day I'm going to I'm going
to have a company that that's worth more
money than yours. Well, it took me eight
years. So, I I got hooked. Like, I I
worked
I I'm I'm a little bit of an addictive
personality. So which you see again
right now. But I I worked a lot on this
app. I learned I learned in in high
speed and this was also the time where I
started Twitter and that was usually
hugely influential for my career. I made
this app actually quite good and then
one day I was at a party at at 3:00 a.m.
um slightly intoxicated and I got a call
from a US number. The guy on the phone
was like, "Yeah, hello. This is John
from Apple. Yeah, there's a problem with
your application. Like some people
reported pictures and that was it. That
was the end of my app. Um,
>> it was good until it lasted
>> and I was just I just quit my my job and
was like, well,
f you Apple.
>> I did freelance work. I was at dubdub.
I was introduced to
>> dubdubdubc.
>> Yes. Sorry for the insider terms. I was
introduced to someone as one of the best
iOS developers in Austria at a bar at 2
a.m. in San Francisco and then basically
got a job in the US and then I moved to
the US for a while and then I I went to
the Nokia development days. This is all
like stone age by now. My god. And then
someone came up to me and said, "Yeah,
they built this app somewhere in Eastern
Europe and it works but it crashes
sometimes and it was like was like a
magazine viewer, right? This was back
when the iPad just came out and Steve
Jobs hit that like this is the savior.
So everybody was building magazine apps
and I was like that sounds like an
interesting short-term gig. And I I was
like okay I I'll I'll I'll help you out.
And I opened the app and it was like oh
the worst code I've
ever seen in my life. It was literally
one file with like thousands of lines
>> of Objective C. Yes. Where they used
windows as tabs. I I didn't know this
worked. I was surprised this worked at
all, but it felt like a a house of
cards. And I I tried to I tried to
surgically fix things, but like as soon
as you would touch something, something
else would break. Um so I got it I got
it somewhat stabilized and I told him
like, "Look, this is this is like
madness. Um I'm going to rewite this for
you." Yeah. But it took half a year. I'm
going to do it in in a month. Well, it
took me two months. Um, I wasn't that
far off
and and then here I was working on a on
a PDF viewer. You know, on every
technical problem, the domain is is I
wouldn't say like completely
unimportant, but you can always find
interesting problems in every domain.
And there was a lot of interesting
problems because you had a C call that
would render a PDF that would maybe take
30 megabytes, but the whole system had
64 megabytes. So if you're not very
smart and like very careful what you do
in the background and when the OS would
just kill you. I got really fixated at
like making it good like when the
rotation is like that the page would
like animate and so so you know I I like
I like those details. I spent way too
much time on that. That's why I took two
months instead of one. But the end
result was it's good. Um and then I I I
worked with them for a while and then a
friend texted me up. He's like, "Yeah,
I'm working on this magazine app and
it's really hard." I'm like, "Yeah, no
way it's hard. I know." Oh, like I did
it.
>> You just built one.
>> And and he was like, "Can you can you
can you get me the code?" I'm like,
"Sure." So, I sold him like I extracted
the the part that was PDF from from this
magazine app. And I I made sure I made
sure like the other person was okay. And
then I sold him that. I was like, "Well,
if he's interested in that, why let's
not try to sell it to other people." I
used a a WordPress template and
mutilated it to run on GitHub pages and
then and then when you did the the fast
lane flow at the end you got a Dropbox
link to my personal Dropbox with a
source code sip and I put this on one
afternoon and I I tweeted it and and
then in that week three people bought it
and it was like I guess 200 bucks but
back then and for me this was like
amazing and not only I got like three
people who just bought it and like 10
emails who comp 10 people who complained
about
uh because they wanted it but it didn't
have the features they wanted. You know,
it's like I got nerd sniped. I was like,
"Oh, I didn't have text selection." Oh,
how hard can it be? 3 months later. Oh,
yeah. It's really hard.
Text selection in a PDF specifically.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know the
saying the saying like uh the companies
are built by young people because they
don't know how hard it is.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I had no idea what an insane
madness this file format is. Peter was
talking about how some problems look
deceptively simple. PDF rendering is a
good example. You look at it and think,
how hard could it be? And then you spend
months on edge cases that you didn't
even know existed. This looks easy until
you build it pattern shows up in other
places, too. Internal tooling for
feature flags and experimentation is a
classic example. Teams often
underestimate how much work it is to
build infrastructure around these tools.
There's a reason big tech companies like
Uber invested years into building
internal experimentation and feature
flagging systems. Which brings me to
Static, our presenting partner for the
season. Static gives you the complete
toolkit without building it yourself.
You get feature flags, experimentation,
and product analytics all in one
platform tied to the same underlying
user assignments and data. In practice,
it looks like this. You roll out a
change to 1% of users first. You see how
it moves the top pipeline metrics you
care about, conversion, retention,
whatever is relevant for the release. If
something goes wrong, instant roll back.
If it's working, you can confidently
scale it up. Companies like Notion went
from singledigit experiments per quarter
to over 300 experiments with static.
They shipped over 600 features behind
feature flags, moving fast while
protecting against metrics regression.
Microsoft, Atlassian, and Brex use
static for the same reason. It's the
infrastructure that enables both speed
and reliability at scale. Static has a
generous free tier to get started and
pro pricricing for teams starts at $150
per month. To learn more and get a
30-day enterprise trial, go to
stats.com/pragmatic.
And now, let's get back to Peter and why
rendering PDFs was a surprisingly hard
problem.
But now, I remember there was a few
weeks ago someone emailed me. They did
something PDF and they wanted my help.
And I just wrote them like, I'm sorry,
like I I did my deed. I I know more
about PDF than any any sane human person
ever should know. And I went I went to
therapy. Good luck.
But that took off and and I just I while
I was waiting for my visa, I I worked on
this project and and it just kept on
more people kept on buying it. And you
know, it was like it was like summer. I
was I was like lying at the lake and got
another email that someone bought it for
600 bucks, 800 bucks. I just up the
prices as it had more features. And by
the time I I went to San Francisco to
work at this company, it already made
more than what I made there. But my
whole life was I still I still thought
like I have to be there, you know.
>> So I I did it. And also interestingly at
this company, I had to
>> So what would you say that you moved to
San Francisco?
>> Yeah. And and of course also it ended up
being something where I had to build
build something with my framework at
that company too. But you know startups
are not like 8 hours. They're a little
more. And my personal project was also a
little more. So my sleep was a little
less. And then eventually after 3 months
uh Sabine my manager came over and said
this Peter are you okay? And they gave
me a choice uh to either keep working at
this company and drop my project or or
vice versa. And I had one week to
decide. The counter was one week to
stay there or leave the country because
I was on a on a complicated visa.
And well, the decision was quite easy.
It's like, yeah, I want to do my own
thing. And then and
>> and at this point, it was already taking
off. You already saw that this is
there's a big business here. It it will
probably pay you as much as your US job
would have paid. Ah,
>> it was never money driven either.
>> It was more about what what were you
driven by? I want to make stuff that
other people find amazing. Like I I I
love tweaking the details. I love those
little delights. It wasn't even that the
space there were competitors in the
space. But my angle was always like I
built something as if Apple would have
built it like like with with like all
the love and care and and polish and and
those little delights that
a lot of people in the industry don't
get. Uh, so even though we had
competitors that had way more features
and were around way longer, my company
was more successful and my product was
more successful cuz developers tried the
the different ones and mine just felt
the best. I think software is all about
about how it feels much more so than the
than the feature set. Like why did we
buy Apple stuff? It has more features
than than Windows. Um, but it it feels
better. So, how did you go from like you
you left this company and you were
building this PDF component that started
to sell. At what point did you hire the
first person realizing, okay, there's
something more to this? when I went back
to Vienna then I was like okay I have to
go all in and that's where I I started
working with freelancers a little bit
and way too late to be honest also like
I I could have could have hired much
earlier but you know you know it's it's
it's a big step and that's kind of where
it it started having a life of its own
and I spent
pretty much 13 years of my career
um building this product with this weird
name that I never changed because I took
me like I thought like five minutes
about it and then stock PSPDF kit.
>> PSPDF.
>> They finally they finally did a rename,
but I wouldn't have I wouldn't have
renamed it. But now it it
>> it's it's a mouthful, but it's very
unique.
>> Well, you get it if you do Objective C
because it's just a name space.
>> Yes.
>> Um and by by the time it it made perfect
sense, my marketing my strategy for
marketing was always I only care about
the developer. Like I know like upper
management does the decisions but if I
can convince the people inside the
company they all do the marketing and
lobbying for me that worked really well.
We never did like cold cold emails or
aggressive. It was all inbound. All we
did was like make good stuff and write
insertful technical blog posts that and
I went to a lot of conferences like the
for me important it was okay if if
people understand that the people who
built this product are like know what
they do and and love what they do that
reflects on the product and that that
worked really well.
>> And then what was the text type behind
PSPDF kit? Was it objective C? Was it
later swift? Were there other
technologies like C or or anything else?
>> We eventually expanded to to all the
platforms. Um big shift was the switch
out renderer which was and is still
quite buggy to like a big C++ one that
when then we used across all the
frameworks. Um we we were we were really
early with web. We were one of the first
PDF frameworks that ran in web assembly.
And I I did the most clever thing that
it was in the very early days when Web
Assembly was just taking off and we
built a benchmark and that benchmark was
eventually used by by Google and
Microsoft and Apple and I basically had
all these companies like working really
hard on making my renderer faster cuz
cuz they used their benchmark as one of
their benchmarks and the benchmark was
just like rendering our stuff with our
[__]
>> Ah nice. And then a as as a company
grew, one thing that I remember about
PSPDF kit, you did write a lot of blogs
and one blog in 2019, so this was about
like I think you know year nine or 10 in
the company. It was about how the team
worked and you you mentioned things
there like every feature starts with a
proposal. You mentioned that you are
conservative because it's a it's a big
API that that people use. You want to be
careful things like the boy scout rule
such a factor. How how did you kind of
put together the the culture of of this
now this team which was now closer to 30
or 60 people?
>> We were actually 70 when when I sold my
shares and now it's almost 200. And I I
knew right from the get- go it's like
I'm not going to find the people that I
need in Vienna. So it was always just
like remote first and eventually we we
landed up with some kind of hybrid model
uh which made things a bit more
complicated. I learned a whole lot on
the go. Like I I never had the urge to
be CEO. I always was coding. I I brought
people in to people that that helped me
a lot with other other parts. Uh and on
the business side, I can do it and I I
think I think I'm I'm quite good at it,
but I just don't enjoy it. Like even on
sales calls where you like have to like
think of all the magic number how much
it would be worth because that's how
enterprise works. Gh worse. Peter just
said, "Ah, the worst about enterprise
sales. Because selling to large
companies, enterprises, is as tricky as
it gets." Not just because you need to
get pricing right, but because of all
the enterprise features that you need to
build. And this leads us nicely to our
season sponsor, Work OS. If you're
building with AI agents or automation
tools, here's a problem most teams don't
think about at first. Once an agent can
take actions on your behalf, you need to
control what it's allowed to do. And
traditional O just wasn't designed for
that. That's why work introduced MCP off
which gives teams a way to authenticate
AI agents with explicit permissions
auditability and enterprisegrade
security. Instead of sharing over scoped
API keys, you can define clear
boundaries for the data that agents can
access and the agents they can perform.
If you're building AI powered features
and want to share fast without
compromising security, check out
workeros.com/mcp.
And with this, let's get back to Peter
and enterprise pricing. But that's also
the only thing that that really works on
on a model like this.
>> Yeah. You mean enterprise sales
specifically, right?
>> Meaning custom pricing. So So can you
tell us for for for you know devs
listening who go to a vendor's website
and they're frustrated that there's no
price. It says call us or schedule
meeting. Why that is?
>> Oh, that's that's why because we going
to look at your company and then just
take the dice and and and think about
the number that you're probably willing
to pay. And that sounds horrible. But
also when you have a product where you
can't really tear it down to a specific
number like it it's it makes a
difference if uh a freelancer contacts
us or one of the big Fortune 500s. Let's
not say names
>> because the usage will be different. The
value they get out of it will be
different and charging the same. You
would either exclude one or the other.
If I if I if I go too low, they're going
to see this fishy. It's like uh
procurement for like 500 bucks. we're
not going to even start the process. And
if we we target it too high, we're going
to lose those people. So So as horrible
and unfair this process seems for some
kinds of products, it is the it's the
most fair way after all. You know, you
know, on software
there is I would say there's like four
axes. There's like easy and hard and
interesting and not interesting. We were
very much in the not interesting and
hard part. If you build something that
every developer wants to build, it's
going to be a hard cell. It's it's a
hard sell anyhow. Selling anything to
developers is a hard sell.
>> Yeah.
>> But if it's if it's too easy or too
interesting, good luck. But if it's
>> oh god, I don't want to do this and oh
my god, this is hard. That's a good spot
to be in. So So I found a really
interesting niche and there were just an
infinite number of complex problems.
>> You you you need to tell me tell me one
or two hard things about parsing PDF.
How hard could it be? There's a
specification. I'm an engineer. I know
specifications. I What's so hard about
it?
>> I mean, there was this one example
where, you know, like PDF has have
links. So, like there's like there's
like a table of contents and you click
on it and it goes to like page 37. So, I
built this whole model with the
assumption, oh yeah, maybe there's like
a 100 or 400 links in there.
>> And then we got this one customer who
like paid really good money. And then I
was like, oh, it takes 4 minutes to load
a PDF. What the heck, guys? And I looked
at it and it was like a 50,000 page text
bible from Canada and it had
>> 50,000 pages.
>> It had like more than 100 links per
page,
>> 500,000 links.
>> My data model completely exploded
because my assumptions were off by a
number of what 1,000. But by then you
have like a mature product with an API.
So like how do you how do you completely
redesign the internal part without
breaking things for everyone? like
suddenly everything has to be lazy where
where before parsing 100 one was easy
but now they were like this was like so
difficult to keep it working for people
um I think I spent like two months just
on that completely redesigning like the
internals and like making sure it's
still easy for people they don't have to
know what we what we load easy what we
load lazy or if you copy this thing it
it still has to like have to keep some
connection
>> it needs to keep the references and and
some of those things.
>> So, so I and I I love to do support and
I think that that that also a confining
factor why the company worked cuz if if
you send a ticket and then the the the
CEO replies and helps you out
um that has impact and my my strategy
was always like I always used to list in
reverse cuz if you if you send a ticket
and you get a reply within 5 minute
that's magical. If you wait one or two
days not much difference. Yeah.
>> So, yeah, this this was one of the
problems where I worked two months and I
finally got it down to almost like this.
>> Mhm. That must have been satisfying.
>> And and it was this was very satisfying.
>> And you were writing a lot a lot of the
code or you were involved in in in a
bunch of the code like obviously a big
big team was now here, but you were
still kind of overseeing it, right?
You're in the details. I mean, of
course, I had a a really great team and
and some parts I was more involved. I
was always more involved in mobile
because that's where my my heart was,
but I was always very deep in the tech
and and the the
marketing side, the business side. I had
like Jonathan's help, I had marketing
help. There was I I I found good people.
The the thing is if you like the
blogging and writing about how you solve
interesting hard problems will help you
hire interesting people that want to
solve interesting problems. This is what
I remember at PSP PDF kit that your blog
was every now and then it admitted it to
hacker news as well but it was just
interesting to read and I couldn't name
again I I'm not went into PDFs but if I
had to say something a PDF I would have
said PSPDF kit because they're the only
ones where I read interesting engineing
blogs about how you optimize your ship
is still there by the way I I I myself
also sometimes ask myself like hm
interesting do more companies not see
this or is is the question that you you
need to be a developer who's either the
CEO or or up there who just likes doing
this. And by the way, did did you ever
write this thinking this will be helpful
or you just wrote because you got
something out of it like putting out
that you solved this hard problem?
>> I like sharing and and and like
inspiring people. Um there was sometimes
even conflicts where we were like should
we write about this because it's like a
little bit of secret sauce
but I just never listen to those voices
too much. Um I just you know there's
also like when you when you write
something down there it's this principle
of like you understand it but then if
you want to teach it you really have to
understand it. So to to me it was also a
little bit like oh yeah I worked on this
really hard problem and now I want to
like preserve it and like help others.
So, so, so I I got I got a gig of it of
of course I liked the attention. Um, but
really it it was this
sometimes I just referenced a year later
to my own post like yeah this this is a
this is both company documentation. This
is like my own lookbook. It's helpful on
so many ways and a lot of those bigger
companies.
Oh, they put on too much red tape.
There's a lot of developers who don't
really like to write. So I I I forced
everyone once a month a full day just to
write a blog post.
>> But you gave them the time. You're like
that day you don't need to do any other
work but write something.
>> Yeah. You have Yeah. You have a day to
come up with a post. Ah a day is is
quite much actually. I mean when I'm
nowadays when I write posts it still
takes me
a few hours. I don't want to dwell too
much on like the I think the the the
starting time of the company is the most
interesting. the then the the growth
phase, you get more red tape, you get
more people. It's much more gardening
your product instead of like doing doing
wild hacks
>> um and more iterative. So, so, so it got
a little bit less interesting uh over
the years and there was like more people
drama cuz the more so the more people
you have, the more issues there are and
I didn't enjoy it that much and I was
really really burned out. What what
burnt you out, do you think?
>> I was just burning too hard. I was
working most weekends. I I I tried to
shuffle all my managerial needs. And you
know, as a CEO, you're basically the
waste bin cuz everything everything that
other people don't manage or or can do
or or mess up, you have to fix. And it's
also quite lonely because you you can't
openly talk about a lot of things. I
mean I I I I structured the company to
be quite open but still like you cannot
you cannot be negative. You have to even
if even if like even if like really bad
stuff happens. I know there was like
there was like one weekend where my my
co-founder called me at at 5:00 a.m. and
told me like yeah there's this big
airplane company and their planes are
down because our software is crashing.
That was a very interesting weekend
until I could like I disassembled their
their app and did proof that they messed
around with our source code to
triggering a triggering a license key
fall back. Uh that eventually like
caused issue they had. But that was like
a if they sus company's gone and more
moment. Um and that's just on top to all
the additional stress and there were
quite a few of those things. You can do
that for a while. And I I also believe
like burnout doesn't necessarily come
from working too much. It it comes more
from or at least for me when you when
you work on something but you don't
believe in it anymore or you have like
too many conflicts and and we also had a
we did fight a lot in the team uh with
like management team and by the time I I
made this mistake and I thought you have
to like lead a company more
democratically.
Um so that was also something that
burned me out. I wouldn't I wouldn't
want to miss it for a while, though.
>> Yeah. So, you know, from from the
outside, it seems you sold your shares,
you made enough money to not have to
work again, should you not choose. And
for a lot of people, like, you know,
people who are starting out their
business or or one day want to start a
business, this sounds like the absolute
dream. Like, this is I guess what we
know realistically that most people will
not make it, but if you make it, I mean,
you've kind of like I guess you know,
checkbox done. You're kind of it's a
little bit if you're like climbing on a
wall and you ring the bell, you're done.
And then what I noticed is from the
outside again on your blog, the blog
post completely stopped for several
years. What what did you do uh in in
this time uh and and what what what did
you learn in this time, you know, before
you came back to to where we are now?
>> I needed a lot of time to decompress. I
I catched up a lot on the things I
thought I missed. I I a lot. Um there
were months where I didn't even turn on
my computer. And for a while I was I
just didn't had this feeling of like
what should I do now? Like like I
definitely was like
why border? You know, you're not you're
not supposed to to retire so early or
like have so much have such a good exit
that you never have to work again. That
messed with my mind quite a bit. That
>> that was some that was some hard years.
And then in in April I was like
I there was this idea that I had years
ago and even a side project that I
started I was like oh yeah I want to I
want to continue on that and then after
after after more than 3 years I just sat
back to my computer and and started
hacking again. But the thing was this
was like a a Twitter analytics thing and
it was written in in Swift and Swift UI
and back then I already knew this would
have would be so much better if I would
build as a website.
>> So So was this an existing idea that you
kind of had at the back of your your
mind something something Twitter
analytic?
>> Yeah, it was just like something I
wanted to build for myself because uh
because it didn't exist and then
>> even three years later it didn't exist.
It still doesn't exist. Uh it it kind of
does but I got a bit sidetracked. So I I
went back and I I wanted to build it in
in with web tech. But web was really was
always even at the company the one thing
that I looked into the least because I
had I had someone really smart who took
care of of of that side in the company
that I brought in Martin. So I never had
to worry about it. That was one of the
>> You're not hands on with React or any of
that stuff.
>> Yeah. And when I came back, I was like,
what's a prop? You know, that that level
where you really where and you know,
this is like this is a a trap I see with
many developers. The the better you get
at one technology, the harder it is to
jump somewhere else. It's not that you
can't do it, but it hurts so much.
You're like like I can I can program in
in in in Apple stack. and program blind.
But then in that stack, I have to Google
the most mundane stuff and it it just
like it just hurts. You you you feel you
feel like an idiot again.
>> Yeah. And and I guess the more
experience you have, it it kind of sucks
feeling. I mean, I'm sure you say
embrace and and all that, but it's it's
not great. You're not as efficient. You
know that you could be faster, etc.
>> Yeah. So So I came back and I was like,
gosh, there has to be there has to be
what is this AI? What is this AI stuff
that every that that people are
dismissing? let's look into this. Yeah.
And in April, a lot of us were the
specific probably for rightfully so, but
and I and I and I like and I to a degree
I I credit those three years where I
basically didn't turn on my computer
because in those years you guys checked
out AI and learned that it's crap.
>> Yeah. the the people who like I was
about to say so you missed out on you
didn't do the beta of GitHub copilot you
know glorified autocomplete which is
GPC3 or or maybe not even there was then
of course 3.5 which is a big jump and it
it got incrementally better than GPT4
and so by the time you came back what
tool did you first use when you cuz you
missed out on like two years of like
like devs us devs using dismissing
finding some niche use cases for it
>> oh cloud code so you start with cloud
mode that I think came out.
>> It just came out It came out in May, but
there was a beta beforehand.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think they had something
Didn't they have something in February
already?
>> They had a beta from February. Correct.
>> Yeah. So, so
>> so clock was your first you you come
back after like a you know hiatus and
you immediately turned on clock code and
you missed everything else before. and
and and you know, you know, it was like
I I remember I took this big messy site
project that I built and I have this
browser extension where that that
converts a GitHub repository into one
big markdown that was like a 1.3
megabyte markdown file and I dragged it
into into Google's CI studio with
Geminina 2.5 or two to something and I
typed write me a spec and it generated
those 400 lines of spec And I dragged
this back into cloud code
and I was like build and then I continue
continue continue and while I was like
working on other stuff, you know, um and
eventually told me like it's 100%
production ready and I started it and it
crashed. I'm sure we can all relate to
the story of the AI saying the code is
production ready then crashing. This is
a pretty funny and innocent story, but I
personally don't trust code that AI
generates without verifying it. And this
leads us nicely to our season sponsor,
Sonar. So, let's look at some data. A
new report from Sonar, the state of code
developer survey report, found that 82%
of developers believe they can code
faster with AI. But here's what's
interesting. In the same survey, 96% of
developers said they do not highly trust
the accuracy of AI code. This checks out
for me as well. While I write the code
faster with AI agents, I don't exactly
trust the code it produces. This really
becomes a problem at the code review
stage where all this AI generated code
must be regularly verified for security,
reliability, and maintainability. Sonar
cube is precisely built to solve this
code verification issue. Sonar has been
the leader in the automated code
analysis business for over 17 years,
analyzing 750 billion lines of code
daily. That's over 8 million lines of
code per second. I actually first came
across Sonar 13 years ago in 2013 when I
was working at Microsoft Skype and a
bunch of teams already use Sonar Cube to
improve the quality of their code. I've
been a fan since. Sonar provides an
essential and independent verification
layer. It's the automated guardrail that
analyzes all code whether it's developer
or AI agent generated, ensuring it meets
your quality and security standards
before it ever reaches production. To
get started for free, head to
sonarsource.com/pragmatic.
With this, let's get back to Peter and
how AI agents cannot exactly be trusted.
>> Then I had then I added added an MCP so
it could use the browser. I think the
player with MCP was already there and it
looped a few more hours and then I had a
I had a Twitter login page and it it did
something. I It was not great, but it
did something. And to me to me this was
my holy [__] mind-blowing moment.
>> Yeah.
>> This and this was like in April or May
this year, right?
>> Yeah. It was it was it was just good
enough that I could see the potential
and I I understood it's like
>> yeah this is this is where it's going
and and from that moment on I I had a
few months where I had really trouble
sleeping and I in
>> I I remember because once on Twitter I
sent you a direct message. I was up
early for valid reasons, you know, my my
kids or something like that. But it was
5:00 a.m. and I I sent you a message on
Twitter and you replied immediately. And
I was like, "Why are you up?" And he's
like, "Oh, this is usual. Like I I
usually I'm still usually awake." And
and I asked like, "Why?" And you said
like, "Oh, I'm I'm just like using
Claude and it's really really
addictive." And I was like, "Really?"
And you're like, "Yeah, I'm not joking.
Like it's really good." And I think that
was the thing. You said something or
wrote something like just one more
prompt. like you told me how like what
what made it so addictive or or what
what still makes it so addictive?
>> Oh, it's the same economics as as you go
to a casino. That's that's it's my
little slot machines, you know? You you
you press the trigger and ding ding ding
ding ding and it's like nope. you you
type in the prompt and it it will like
and it does it does crap or it does
something that actually blows your mind
and it's this
>> and and you're saying it it blows your
mind as like you're a really experienced
developer like it's it's not easy to
blow your mind, right? Like you you
you've seen good code you can
differentiate like crap code, decent
code, good enough code like you have a
bar, right? It's so funny, you know, in
my company, I used to obsess over every
detail, every spacing, every new line,
the naming. I spend so much time bike
shedding. And in retrospect, I'm like,
what the heck? Why did I do that? Like,
what's the point that the customer
doesn't see the insights of of course
like it has to meet certain certain
standards. It has to work. It has to be
fast. It should be secure, but like how
much did that bike [__] there is like
stupid.
>> You say that, but then you also just
said that people loved PSPDF kit because
it was the most polished. It worked the
best. Do you not think that that that
amount of caring bike shedding as you
call it? Being obsessed. It sound like
you were keeping tech depth at bay, you
know, like being obsessed with white
spaces is is not going to be messy. And
we know it's not just the white spaces.
we know you're going to care about
testing and all that. Like it sounds to
me that PSPDF kit like you know like
what I see is you were not just building
a product that was great UX but you
built something that had a really good
hygiene and that's how it could be high
performance and all that is how do you
think about it?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. To a degree. Yes. And
and even now like I I I mean like my my
last blog post was a confession that I I
ship code on read and
>> yeah we have to talk about that
>> and at the same time I spent so much
time to like restructuring
I mean I mean like even even today like
I I really wanted to get this PR in
where it was like 15,000 line change
where in my I moved everything over to a
plug-in architecture where I was so
excited about and I care a lot about the
structure. Did I read all the code? No,
because a lot of code really is just
boring plumbing. Well, what are most
apps? Like data comes in from an API in
one form. You like you parse it, you
package into a different form. Hey, you
store it into database and it's a
different form. It comes out again into
a different form. Then it's like HTML or
whatever. And you type in something it's
a different form again. And all you do
is like you're massaging data in
different forms throughout your app.
This is what most apps are. We are
pretty chasing printers. And the and the
the really the hard part is solved by
Postgress 30 years ago by some neck
birds. Uh that's that's really what a
lot of software is like. There's always
some interesting parts, but I don't have
to care how this button is aligned or
which tailwind class is used or or like
many details are boring and many other
details are interesting. But it I think
it's much more about system architecture
than having to read every single line.
>> Right now jumping forward, what is your
workflow like? Like like when you're
working on on cloud bot, are you using a
terminal, multiple terminals, which
which tools and and how are you you know
like you said you're not you're kind of
like not reviewing the the code, but
you're still thinking about
architecture. Like what does your
average day look like in terms of
tooling? You know, you have to explain
to a developer who might join the team.
you know, at at one point you didn't get
like what does it look like?
>> It's interesting. Let's let's let's go a
little bit. We were we were in in in
April with Cloud Code and then I got
really hooked and then I did some I had
a phase where I did cursor and then I
did I I used Gemini 2.5 a bit. Then we
had this phase with Opus 4. I hooked up
a lot of my friends like I know I know
both Armen and and Mario from Vinner.
They got they got AI pill because I I
was addictive. You know, my my enem was
like confusing them and then they tried
it out and then and then eventually they
also were up at 5:00 a.m. and I called
it like the black eye club. I mean,
there's a reason like I I I I started a
meet up in London that I called called
uh Cloud Code Anonymous because because
it's it's a little bit like a drug
because it's so it's so much fun. Like
to to me what what what blew my mind so
much was this realization that I can
build everything now. Before you had to
really pick which side project you build
because software is hard. Yeah, it's
still hard. But now like I I am this
this friction that I talked about where
I'm so good at this at this technology
and I'm like so bad at this and I'm like
oh let's make the CLI in Go. I have no
clue about Go. But I have I have a good
system understanding and once you have
that is like you you develop a feeling
what's right what's wrong like it's it
it is a skill in itself. I remember
there was this tweet where someone said,
"Oh, when you write the code, you you
feel the friction and that's why that's
how you make good architecture." I feel
the same friction when I prompt because
I I see the code flying by. I see how
long it takes. I see if like the agent
pushes back. Um I see if what it creates
looks like messy or like makes sense.
When I prompt, I I have a hint already
how long it's going to take. If it takes
much longer, I understand that I messed
up somewhere.
>> You kind of feel the model. you you know
you know
>> yeah usually it's like this or if it
runs
>> I I feel it's very much a symbiosis like
I I learn to to talk
>> may I even say dare or that language
more so it's like my my knowledge how to
use those things improved and also the
models improved and then and then like
over the time between between April and
now I would say yeah the inflection
point was summer where it just got so
good that you could you create software
without actually writing code by hand.
But the real that change that like sold
it for me is was
again GBD 5.2 that was again I think
it's underrated. I don't know I don't
know why why all these people still use
cloud code. I I I kind of get it. It's
it's a different way of working but
whatever OpenAI cook there is insanely
good. pretty much every prompt I type
gives me the result I want which is
insane like like on on on cloudbot the
my latest product I use
between five and 10 agents in parallel
if you're very much cloud code build you
have to forget quite a lot of the
the silliness that the things that you
have to do to create good output with
cloud code I mean I also met that team
and and they created a whole new
category. Like cloud code is is is a
category defining product and it is
amazing for general purpose computer
work and it is is really good for coding
and I I I I still use it almost every
day. But for writing code in complex
applications, Codex is just so much
better because it it it takes 10 times
longer. um Claude would
read three files and then be confident
enough to just like create code and then
you really have to steer it and push it
so it reads more code so it gets it sees
a bigger picture of your codebase so
that it it it weaves in new features
better and Codex will just like be
silent and just read files for 10
minutes and if you if you only work on
one terminal I completely understand how
you how you find this unbearable
But I rather have something where it's
also you don't tell it what to do. You
know this is this is also something that
people don't get like I have a
conversation with the model. It's like
oh let's look at this what what what
what options do we have for this
structure? Did you consider this
feature? It's like because every every
session is like the model starts from
having no understanding about your
product and you have and and sometimes
you have to just give it a little bit of
pointers. What about this and this? So
it explores different directions and you
don't need plan mode like I'm just
having a conversation until I say build
this it will not build this. There's
some trigger words because it it is they
all are a little trigger hungry but as
soon as I say let's discuss or give me
options they will not build things until
I say build.
>> So so a lot of a lot would you say a lot
of your prompting or a good part of it
is this conversation where you are
pretty much planning together with the
agent.
>> Yeah. It's like what about like I say
okay then you remind them it's like okay
we need documentation what would be a
good spot it would like give me some
recommendations I say no this should
really be its own page do we need a
configuration how how does this fit into
this other feature it's like I am
designing the system because I have this
I have this system understanding about
how how is my my product how are the
shapes looking I don't have a line by
line code understanding that's that's
what Codex does for me but I'm the
architect you
It sounds a little bit like you're
almost, you know, for
years back this this totally came got
out of style. But there was this idea
that you would have the architect with a
capital A who used to be a software
developer, but they're not hands-on
anymore because they spend a lot of time
understanding the business and they have
these developers working underneath
them. And some companies still kind of
work a little bit like this, but most
modern companies don't. But some banks,
etc. I met people there who are capital
architects. They do the system plan.
They talk with fellow architects. They
have the blueprint and then they
literally pass it down to the team and
everyone hates this model obviously
because you know again like I I think as
people you kind of want more. The
architect is never on call for for this
stuff and so it just kind of breaks down
in practice and a lot of large companies
just move to the staff engineer model
where you're kind of all working
together. Of course, there's people who
make who might have more input, but
sounds like it's almost like this world
where you are the architect who kind of,
you know, you have your little agents
who who do the code, except in this
case, you are of course fully
responsible because you're still an
individual contributor. You're not
you're not like a okay, you might say
you're a manager of agents or whatnot,
but the code is is yours. It's your
responsibility. You're going to be on
call. If you know, if you push out code
that takes down CloudBot, which it did
just recently, you're on the hook for
it, right? like and I think the the
difference in this system when when it
was in companies it was the architect
was kind of shielded from the output of
their work because there's so much
people and so much process etc. Well, I
wouldn't say architecture. I I like the
word builder.
>> Builder. Yeah.
>> And and and I think also that's there's
a few categories that I see for people
that are highly successful using using
AI and people who really struggle.
>> I care more about the outcome, the
product. I very much care about how it
feels and everything, but how the
plumbing works underneath.
>> I care structurally, but you know, not
to the not the biggest detail. And then
there are people who really love to to
code on hard problems like think about
algorithms don't really like the I'm
building a product with like all the
marketing all the they they more like
they like to solve hard problems and
those are the people who really struggle
and and and often reject AI or get
really sad because that's exactly the
job where that AI does like it solves
the hard problems. Now sometimes I give
it some pointers but many times I
learned I learned more this year than
last five years around around software
architecture and designing. I the
there's so much inside those monsters um
on knowledge and everything is just a
question away but you have to know what
question to ask. Of course I also built
this Twitter thing and it's still not
done and I and I I really hope I I'll
get back to it at one one time.
everything worked but if I used it more
at some point things got really laggy
and weird and then it worked again and I
just couldn't figure it out and it was
like really difficult to debug because
it was not easy to reproduce. It was
just like you use it more and things get
really slow. I basically had like
software in in in in Psql like in
Postgress that would be triggered when
certain inserts were were doing and then
the database would would get really busy
and the model couldn't see it because it
was it was it was so far abstracted from
all the you know like those those models
are really good at tracing through but
this was a side effect that was so hard
to see because it was only in this one
file
a function that had no connection to
anything else. um with a name that was
not easy grabbable. I just never asked
the right question until I was like do
we have any side effects for this and
this and I found it and I fixed it and
it's like but I everything is just the
right question away.
>> Yeah. But you you need to have like
knowledge, expertise.
>> Yeah. You experience
>> you you I mean so so so these are the
people who rejected and then the people
who who care a bit less about how it's
being plumbed internally but are just
excited to build things. They're really
successful. And one thing that also
helped me is, you know, when you run a
company and then you hire people, you
can't breathe on everyone's neck and
like make them have the line of code
exactly that way. And there's a lot of
people who who didn't manage a team,
they didn't had this experience how to
how to relax a little bit and understand
that yes, this maybe is not exactly that
code that I want, but it will get me
closer to my goal. And for anything that
is like
not perfect, we can always make it
better and like put more time into it. I
very much believe into this iterative
improvement. I had to learn to let go a
little bit at my company. So, so, so
then when I when I had cloud code, it
kind of felt like I have like I have
like imperfect, sometimes silly, but
sometimes very brilliant engineers that
I have to steer and where we where we
work together on a common goal. It felt
a lot like being the boss again.
>> Yeah. And and interesting now you know
you you built kind of software I guess
the traditional way you know pre AI for
15 years or even more than 15 years and
you got really good at being also
leading a team and then how to have high
standards. You really cared about the
the craft there as well. You've now kind
of been I guess vibe coding or working
with agents for a year. You're comparing
the two. What do you think? What do you
think really really changed? And what do
you think are things that kind of stayed
the same despite all
>> First of all, I don't like I don't like
the term VIP code.
>> All right. How should we call it?
>> I I think I think I think VIP coding is
by now almost a I I call it I tell
people I do what I do is agending
engineering with a little star. VIP
coding starts at 3:00 a.m.
>> Now like because all the the mundane
stuff of writing code is automated away,
I can move so much faster. But also
means like I have to sing so much more.
I'm still very much in the flow. Like it
is it is completely the same feeling as
for me as as I I very much get in this
flow state but it is mentally even more
taxing because I have I don't have one
employee that I manage. I have like five
or 10 that all work on things and I
switch from this one part to this other
part to this other part to this other
part. mostly because of I'm designing
this new subsystem or like this feature
and then I know that it will probably
take Codex like 40 minutes or or one
hour to build. So like I want to like
have the plan right and then I build it
and then I'll I'll move on to something
else but then this is cooking and then I
work on this and then this is cooking
and then this is cooking and then at
some point this is cooking and then this
is cooking and then I go back to this
one. So like I I I I switch around a lot
in my head. I wish I wouldn't have to do
that. Like I'm sure this is a
transitionary problem and at some point
we have we have models and and systems
that are so fast that that I can
paralyze a little less. But to stay in
the float flow state I need to massively
parallelize. So that that's that's how
it work. I go back to there and and
maybe tweak it a little bit more. But
usually just like try it out and maybe
then this is ready because this only
took like 20 minutes. So like I
constantly jump around. Usually there's
there's one main project that has my
focus and I have like some satellite
projects that also need attention but
where I can make maybe I spend 5 minutes
it does something for half an hour and
and and I try it and it doesn't need uh
so much capacity up there.
>> This almost sounds you know like two
things come to mind. One is there's
these like games where you have to
manage a kitchen with the employee and
and you see like the recipes or
something come out and you need to jump
and do it again.
>> It's like Starcraft, you know, you have
like your main base and you have like
your side bases. They give you
resources.
>> That as well. And also one thing that
just came to mind as you said like I go
there and I watch this and I make a
decision is when I see the chess grand
masters play multiple boards at once.
You see see sometimes they 20 boards and
they always all you they go there they
kind of you can see that they just like
see what's on that board. they make a
decision and for some boards they stop
for longer I guess better players or
better opponents. It feels, you know,
both they're occupying 100% of of their
brain. You're occupying your bay and
you're you're kind of scaling yourself
as long as you can context switch. The
difference the difference was up until
with with cloud code I you have to work
a little different because it is much
faster but then the output often doesn't
work on the first try. So like it makes
something but then it forgot to update
three other things. it crashes or you
give it
the good thing how to be effective with
coding agent is always like you have to
close the loop. It needs to be able to
debug and test itself. That's the big
secret. Um that's also something I I
think that's part of why it got so much
more effective. Um but yeah, with with
with clock code you I often had to go
back and like fix up the stuff
um or it just takes a lot of iterations.
So in the end it's not that much faster.
It's just more interactive.
And and these days with Cordex it just
almost always gets it right. My my
general strategy is always I I build a
feature of course you and and of course
you always let it write tests and you
make sure that it runs it.
>> It runs them. Yes.
So even even when I write a MAC app, I
don't know like I I just yesterday I
debuged this feature where
the MAC app couldn't find a a remote
gateway but like the the same code in
Typescript could but makeup is kind of
annoying to debug because like it builds
it you have to start it you have to look
at it you have to like say no this is
not working. So now I just said it like
you know you're going to build a CLI
just for debugging that invokes all the
same code path that you can call
yourself and then you just iterate and
you fix it yourself and then it will
just cook and it just cooked for an hour
and it was done and it told me like
there was a race condition here and here
and like a misconfiguration blah blah
blah and like yeah it sounds sensible. I
don't need to I don't need to see that
code. It's like but but you don't need
to see it because you set up the
validation loops and you trust that
because it ran it. I mean this is I
guess I guess it's not too dissimilar to
like sometimes when you work on a large
project in a large company when all the
tests pass I mean it doesn't mean 100%
it's there but it's it's a pretty good
and and all the new new code has test as
well you know someone thought about it
and tested it and and all that. So even
even on my on the very latest project we
always had bugs
but like anti-gravity has like a certain
a certain weirdness with how it takes
tool calls in the loop in the in the
format. So you have to do like some
filtering.
>> Yeah.
>> And that broke a bunch. And it actually
took me way too long to realize like
what am I doing here? I just need to
automate this. So I was just going to
codeex. like design life tests that spin
up a Docker container, install the whole
thing, spin up a loop, use my API keys
from this and this file
and then you tell the model to
read an image, create an image before
and then look into the image and see
what it sees. So I I don't not just tell
the loop, I still tell tool calling,
make it work
and then it solved itself. It took
forever, but it it it it tested all my
API keys like from from Entropic over
SEI over GLM like everything and it
fixed all those little indicies where
where sometimes the tool calling didn't
work or the ordering was wrong because I
closed the loop and and that's that's
>> and closing the loop you mean just have
a way to to have have the agent be able
to validate its work?
>> Yeah, that's why that's the whole reason
why why those models that we currently
have are so good at coding. But like
sometimes mediocre good at writing
creative because there's no easy way to
validate right but code I can compile I
can lint I can execute I can verify the
output if you design it the right way
you have a perfect loop like even now
even now for for websites I built the
core in a way that can be run via a CLI
so it's like I have this I have this
perfect uh execution loop because the
the browser loop is insanely slow you
want something that that loops fast. So
it sounds like one thing that is not
really changing from like before is we
had this before like backend or business
logic heavy he heavy thing could easily
be or more easily be verified that it's
correct.
>> Surprise actually using aentic coding
makes you a better coder because you
have to have to think harder about your
your your architecture so that it's
easier verifiable because verifying is
the way how to make things good. Well,
then remember back back even before AI
for complex systems like once you got
someone who built these things before
what they started with how do we make it
testable right like you you need to
design interfaces classes testable you
need to think about like am I going to
fake things will I use mocks will I use
end toend testing which will be long etc
but these are like really hard
architectural decisions and once you
make them they're I guess harder to
change in your in your word you know
like the model would cook a lot longer
if you asked it to make a massive
refactor acture and you know if you have
test it'll get it right but you know now
these we we still have these trade-offs
>> yeah it's still it's still software it's
it's I I would say I write better code
now that I don't write code myself
anymore and I wrote really good code but
but like even back at the company
sometimes testing was so tedious and you
come up with all those edge cases and
and and the branching
>> I mean outside of Ken Debbec who I
deeply respect and he was on the podcast
and we We we we talk like he he still
writes test first and he tells me that
he's not mad at me for not writing it
but if you want to write like you know
poor quality code it's on you. Uh but I
don't know many developers myself
included I never liked writing tests and
even even when I pretended that I did I
I just never did. It's a little bit like
writing documentation and writing tests
to me it was never a creative
expression. It is so good now like I I
would say for my last project I have
really good documentation and I didn't
write a single line myself like no I
don't write the test I don't write
documentation I explain the model the
trade-off so like why we did something
like this and then tell it like like
write that write the entrance section
beginner friendly and then add more
technical detail at the end and it is so
good I never had a project with that
good documentation just by every time I
design a feature this is a part of this
a part of the process And also like
testing I was like okay we built this
how are we going to test this? Yeah we
could do this and this and this. What if
we build it this way and oh yeah then we
can test it better. So it's like this is
now part of my singing because I I
always think like how do I close the
loop? How do I the model always needs to
be able to verify the work itself
um which automatically steers me to
better architecture. So why do you think
there's, you know, a bunch of like
experienced devs who are still pushing
quite a bit back on on just like the
idea that AI can do a lot of this?
>> That was a week ago. I I stumbled over a
a blog post by Nala Coco with love that
I deeply respect and learned a lot from.
And this blog post was just was a
dissing of the current way how models
work. And and what he did was he he
tested like five or six models including
some that make no sense like the the
Open EI 120 billion open- source one
that is not good enough to write good
code you know it's like and he just he
he wrote a prompt as far as I understand
it there was there was not a lot of
information on the website but to me it
sounded like he wrote a prompt he put it
on claude web and and he pressed send
and And then he took the output and ran
it and it didn't compile and he was
disappointed. But he's like, "Of course
it will not work. Do you think I can
write buck-free code on the first
attempt?" And those little those
models are ghosts of our collective
human knowledge. They work very similar
in many ways. Of course, you don't get
it right the first time. Like there will
be mistakes. That's why you have to
close the feedback loop. And also you
don't just send a prompt to the model,
you start a conversation. Hey, this is
what I want to build. It's like you he
complained that it used old API. Yeah,
you didn't specify the Mac OS version.
So it so so it made an assumption to
default to like old API because that
information was missing and it is it is
trained on a lot of data, not just the
last two years and there's just more old
data than new data. So this is like the
more you understand how those little
beasts think, the the better you get at
prompting. Um and then and then and then
he he spent maybe I don't know a day or
so on on playing with it and then just
decided that this technology is still
not really good. But to be effective you
have to spend significantly more time.
You know, it's it's like it's like you
know how to play guitar and I put you on
the piano and you tried a bit. It's
like, "Oh, this sucks. I go back to my
guitar." No. No. It's like it's it's a
different way of building. It's a
different way of thinking. You have no
idea how often I screamed at like 3:00
a.m. to cloud code because it did
something silly. I slowly started to
understand why those things do what they
do with like exactly the way I tell it
to do things. And sometimes you can
literally ask you can even even last
year like I for this project I the last
project like clotboard I feel like a
human merge button because the community
is like blowing off and all I do is like
reviewing PRs. I I I I have very little
time to actually write code myself
anymore.
>> And in the beginning it would often like
just cherrypick things and would close
the PR and I was like so annoyed. So was
I'm like why are you doing this? Yeah.
When you say this and this I interpret
this this and this. It was like ah like
I I learned the language of the machine
a little bit more. I tweaked my my
prompting and now I get exactly what I
want because it's it's a skill like any
other skill.
>> Yeah. And this is like Simon Wilson has
been saying the same thing even though
he's been using it for for years and I
think everyone I think once I start to
use it I also realize like I'm not I'm
okay at it but I I I I could do better.
What if we put this to a real test? cuz
I think it's fair to say that right now
you're building CloudBot which is a you
know it's not something that generates
revenue there's a lot of users and it's
blowing up and it's it's a really cool
tool but it's not PSPDF kit which is a
business that it's a lot of revenue is
hinging over it if today you know we
just wiped PSPF kit does not exist you
need to rebuild PSPDF kit you now have
these agents how differently would it
look how much would you trust it what
would you delegate what you would you
validate and and when you know you built
up a team around it because now it's a
profitable business at the very least
you need to hire sales people whatot how
do you think the team would look
different today with that same product
cuz you you know exactly what it took to
build it and you also know what these
tools can do today
>> I could easily run a company with
30% of the people it would probably be
quite difficult to find people
on that level but you you you want you
want to have really senior engineers
that really understand what they build
but that are also comfortable in in in
delegating and know which parts are
actually important to to work on and
which parts
I can vibe. That's still something I
don't see. I don't see a lot like like
especially in the AI world, there is so
much crap on Twitter, there's there's so
many people that are loud but clearly
have no clue what they're doing. There's
there's so many there's so many dumb
concepts around like I'm sorry, but the
Ralph Wigum one gh like this is again
another another silliness people use to
work around
uh model limitations of of of of Opus
that you don't even need when you use
Codex. There's there's maybe a few cases
where you have a really long list of
individual tasks that can be automated,
but that's usually not how software
building works. So there's these people
who I see so many people building up
this elaborated orchestration layers and
then you have like beats that
automatically creates tickets and then
your agent does tickets and then your
agent emails the other agent and then
you build up this this elaborate mess.
What for? Oh yeah, they did they design
the the spec for like a few hours and
then you just like the machine builds it
in the whole day. I don't I don't
believe this works. Like like this is
this is this is the waterfall model of
software building. This we learned long
ago that this doesn't work. Like
yes, people work differently and maybe
it does work for some. I just I just I
don't see how this
how this could work for me. Like I I
have to start
with an idea and often I purposefully
underprompt the agent so it would do
something
that would give me new ideas. You like
maybe like 80% of the things I assumed
were like crap but like there were like
two things like oh I didn't think about
that way.
>> Mhm.
>> And then I I I iterate and and and shape
the project and I have to I have to
click it. I have to like I have to feel
it. I feel I feel to make good software
I you know one thing those those things
often lack is taste. I have to feel like
how does this feature feel and and the
beauty now is that features are so easy
I can just like throw it away or like
reprompt it. My building model is
usually very much forward. It's very
rarely that I actually revert and have
to go back. It's just like okay no then
let's change this. No let's do this.
It's like it's like shaping. I I love
how this like you start with a rock and
then you like sisle away at it and like
pick different areas and and and then
slowly like this statue emerges out of
out of marble. That's that's how I see
that's how I see building something. I I
guess reflecting on how software engine
is changing. This seems like a change
because before before we had AI or any
of these agents, upfront planning did
make a difference. you know, writing at
PSPDF could you insisted I think to have
a proposal where people put a lot of
thought up front to specify and do all
because it was expensive to I guess to
to build to to do you think this is
changing because of the the cost of just
writing code is is going down or
>> I mean I still I still I still plan and
I but
>> you still do yes
>> but I don't put as much into it because
I it's now so much easier to just like
try and look at the results and then see
if oh yeah this this shape could work or
no we have to like the tweaking and even
even like oh no we have to like do it a
completely different way isn't so much
cheaper that it's to me it became much
more playful.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I guess cuz cuz like you
know when you're working even if you
have like a new grad on the team or an
intern you know you give them something
they work it for a day or two now you
give them another it's another day or
two you know and and we're not talking
days here we're talking minutes or like
if it's a longunning task like 10 20
minutes at at worst. Plus, you're not
just waiting on that thing. You have
parallel things running. So, it's not
that much of a waste, if you will,
>> in in in in in cloud.
At the beginning I had this assumption
of like one agent and then eventually
changed to multiple agents and there was
the assumption of like one provider like
WhatsApp and now it's multiple ones and
changing that was like such a pain would
would have been such a pain if I would
have written it myself because you have
to weave in literally everything through
the whole logic of the application
and yeah it took Codex like three hours
it would have taken me like two weeks
you know so so that upfront planning. I
I could have realized that in the
beginning, but now I I know that like I
can just change things and it's it's
much it's much easier to work down your
technical depth or your you know, you
evolve how you think about a project as
you build a project. That's why I don't
believe in I don't know things like Gas
Town where like you write up the spec
and then it builds itself and then it's
done. How can you even know what you
want to build before you built it? you
learn so much in the process of building
it that will go back into your thinking
of how this how the how the system
actually will end up being to me this is
very much it is very much a circle um
until I you don't I don't you don't walk
up the mountain like this you go you go
around and sometimes you like you you
you stray off a little bit of path but
but eventually you you you reach the top
that's that's how I feel so
>> then you know you've been building cloud
bot for what like two months three
months non-stop upish or or like like
how long?
>> Let me let me let's switch a little bit
gear. So, one of the ideas that got me
back was even even in in April May was I
I wanted to have this
hyper personal assistant and not like
not like one that sends you a good
morning email. Oh, these are your three
tasks. No, one that has a really deep
understanding
of me and doesn't just I don't know I
meet a friend and then and then when I
go home it would ping me, hey, how was
how was that meeting? Or one that would
wake me up one day and say, "Hey, you
haven't texted Thomas in 3 weeks and I
noticed he's he's in town right now
because I checked his Instagram account.
Do you want to say hi?" or something
that says, "Hey, I noticed every time
you meet that and that person, you're
sad. Why is that?" Like something
something that is deeply personal. Um
like almost the the anti-orem. It's kind
of like the movie Her, but but that's
where the technology is going. Those
models are really good at understanding
text. the the the bigger the context is,
the more patterns they see. And even
though they're like matrix calculation
without a soul, it very often feels
different. So this was like one of these
ideas and I even created a company I
called a mant machina like the loving
machine. But in summer when I explored
it, the models weren't quite there yet.
I got some results that it was like okay
this is like I'm a little too much on
the edge of what I need right now which
it was very exciting because I know that
that the the state of AI goes so fast
that oh I can just revisit that in like
a little later and and one of the ideas
also was is that I assume that all of
the big corporations right now are very
much working on personal assistance in
the future. Yeah,
>> everyone will have you will have your
best friend who is a a freaking machine
that will understand you, that will know
everything from you, that will can do
tasks for you, that will be proactive,
that will require a lot of tokens, but
everyone who can afford it will have
one. And of course, this will democ
democratize and and trickle down to like
more and more people as as we learn how
to build more efficient systems and and
and hook up on on on chips. No question
this is where the things are going. You
see like the first things with like
OpenAI who who launched pulse with some
productivity but we just don't have
enough compute yet to offer this as a
feature and also it's it's quite
difficult. My idea always was like ah I
kind of want something that runs on my
computer and where the data is
>> it's yours
>> is is actually mine and not and it it's
also quite scary that like you you give
openropic access to your email your
calendar your your dating apps I don't
know if you talk to to to your normie
friends but a lot of my friends in they
use that a lot to basically have a a
therapist
And it it does work incredibly well.
Like it's it's a really great listener.
It understands your problems and unless
like some of versions of 40 that are
like sure this is a great idea. I want
to put French fries into a salad. It it
works really well. And I did that too
like to like re I mean part of it just
is like the the act of reflecting
already is helping you. So it would even
work if the machine would only repeat
exactly what you wrote to a degree. But
it actually gives insightful questions.
It's actually it it got really good. So
I had this idea of this like assistant
but the tech wasn't there. So I did
other part and I I built a whole bunch
of fun stuff with like of course like I
built VIP tunnel this in your career to
become like an authentic engineer you
have this phase. It's a trap phase where
you you're looping and building your own
tools to like optimizing your own
workflow. But this idea of like this
hyper personal agent
stuck a little bit and then
over the last few months I I really
started I built it but finally
initially I didn't even had the the
scope that it has now. Like I called it
WhatsApp relay. I just I just I just
wanted to do to trigger stuff on my
computer with WhatsApp. So, I built like
a WhatsApp relay where I had an agent
that could do stuff with my computer and
then I I was traveling to Morocco for a
friend's birthday and
was out most of the day and just used
WhatsApp to to talk to my agent and I
was kind of hooked. It it it was guiding
me through the city. It was making
jokes. It could text other friends via
WhatsApp from me.
And I remember I I was blown away
because I in the beginning the tech was
very scrappy but I I built in something
where I could send it an image. Didn't
even use the proper thing to send an
image. I just gave the the
a string and it could do the read tool
to like read the string. And then I was
in Morocco and was just like just like
not seeing it and saying it a voice a
voice message but it didn't build that.
And then like like 30 seconds later it
replied to my voice message. I'm like,
"How the did you do that?" Oh, yeah. You
sent me a file and and then I looked at
the header and I found that it's OG. So,
I used FFmpeg to convert it. And then I
I looked for Visper on your computer,
but it's not installed. But I found the
OpenAI key. So, I did a curl to open
server, let it translate, and I'm like,
"Holy cow." like this was Opus 4.5 and
it's so incredibly resourceful like you
just did this you know other people say
oh you need a skill or some system no
just like it just figured it out I
slowly got hooked on the thing I I used
it I used it to wake me up and it was
running I it was running on my Mac
Studio in London and was connecting over
SSH to my MacBook in in Morocco and was
turning on the music and making it
louder louder is because I didn't reply.
And to make that work, I I added a
heartbeat. So, which which in a way is
insane from a security perspective. You
have a model that you prompt with do
something cool and surprise me that you
send every few minutes to make it
proactive and like go through your task
list. Uh like probably the most
expensive alarm clock ever. But it was
just hilarious. And also the text it
sends like cuz I I I was I had a balloon
fart and it it knew that I had to wake
up very early and I didn't reply and it
was like you could see the reasoning
Peter's not responding but Peter has to
wake up. No, no, no, no, no, no sleep.
Like I it was bitching to me and then I
I showed it to the the the friends I was
with and everybody was like hooked. Like
this is something magical and I was
hooked too. Um, and then I I I went on
Twitter and I got the most muted
responses cuz nobody would get it. I
feel it's somewhat of a of a new
category of products. Um, that a little
bit like your story with like you know
when you didn't get the iPhone uh from
the marketing campaigns on TV and
anywhere and then you had to use it.
>> Yeah. So I I worked on it but only the
last two months and it the name changed
from V relay to at some point a claude
uh said like then what is this name like
it doesn't fit the feature set anymore
because like I had like in there and
other features so I renamed it to to
Claudius because it's an inside joke
because I like Doctor Who. I felt
cloudbot is is a better name has a
better domain and explained the product
better. So I did on all the domains and
then I I also quietly built up my army
because to make this work you want you
want everything to be a CLI. So I was
just building CLI for everything like
for Google for my bed for lambs for
music.
>> Why CLIs? Why not why not MCPs? And what
do you think about MCPS anyway?
>> As a crutch it's it's I think that the
the best thing that came out of MCPS is
that it made companies reync to open up
more APIs.
>> Mh. But the whole concept is is silly.
You you have to pre-export
all the functions of all the tools and
all the explanations when your session
loads and then the model has to send a
precise blob of JSON there and gets JSON
back. But surprise, models are really
good at using bash. And like imagine
imagine you have a better service. So
the model could ask for
list of available cities and then get
like 500 cities back and then it has to
pick one city out of 500 city. But it
cannot filter that list because that's
not part of how MCP works. And then you
say, "Okay, give me the weather for
London." And you would get like the
weather, temperature, wind, rain, and
like 50 other things that I'm not
interested in because I just want to
know is it raining or not? Probably
raining because London. But the model
needs to digest everything and then you
have like so much crap in your context.
Whereas if it's a CLI, I could use just
it could use GQ and you could filter for
exactly what it needs. But does does not
seem like a limitation that everything
is loaded around the MCP in the context.
That seems a problem. Like it sounds
like it could work if MCPS were not in
the context and there was a way to
discover or decide which one to use.
>> That's what that's what companies are
building now. But there's still the
problem of that I cannot chain them. I
cannot I cannot easily build a script
that says, "Hey, get me get me like all
the
>> all the CDs that are over 25 degrees and
then and then filter out only that part
of information and like pack it in one
command." That's it's all individual MCP
calls. I cannot I cannot script it.
>> Yeah. But but I guess this is just a
matter of time because if we think about
like you know when when I'm building a
weather app right now, I know that you
know even without AI, I know I need to
build up this thing. I need to I needs
to fetch the data. So I will search what
kind of APIs are available, which one do
I like, which what kind of trade-offs
for pricing, for covering, etc. And then
I choose that API and I could chain APIs
because I I could get that result and
look up a etc. So I I guess this is, you
know, like it it sounds pretty much
we've solved this. So as free AI, we're
going to solve it. It'll just take some
time and who knows what the format for
it will be. I mean I mean I built make
porter which is a which is a a small
TypeScript thing that converts an MCP to
a CLI. So so you can you can just
package it up.
>> Basically you're saying CLIs right now
are a lot more efficient.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So so my in in in cloud but
I don't have MCP support but you can we
make portal you can use any MCP you can
you can literally be on your phone and
say hey use the use the versel MCP to do
this and this and it will go on the
website. It'll find the MCP. it will
load it and it'll use it all all on
demand. Even right now if you use MCP
you have to restart cloud code which is
like very user unfriendly. So I quietly
built up my army to like automate
everything which was a lot of work. Uh I
think t did a video a few days ago where
he told me like this guy is insane
because the list is really long by now
but like I I as I was playing with my my
my agent I just I want him to do more
and more stuff you know. I felt it
really hard to convey what it does. It's
still hard to me. In January, January
1st, just a week now, I did. Okay, let's
let's try something. Let's let's do the
ins really insane thing of like making a
Discord and then adding my agent to
Discord. There was somebody who
contributed Discord support to it. And
uh even though I wasn't sure if I should
merge it and I eventually did. So I put
on my agent who has full read write
access to my computer in a public
Discord.
>> What could possibly go wrong?
>> Yeah. It's like this is absolutely
insane. And then of course like some
people join the Discord and then they
saw me they saw me using the full power
of this thing like checking my cameras
doing home automation.
It playing DJ for me. Like I was in the
kitchen and I told him like look at my
screen and are my agents done cuz it has
full access of my clean and it can
click. So it can actually click into the
terminal and type for me and like it can
tell me your codex say this and this
because it just sees the screen. I mean
I'm working on optimizing that like I I
actually want to stream out it because
would be much would be much better if
it's text but it works already like it
it's it's in the background it look at
my screen and like make some rants if I
do some [__] And everybody who
experienced it for a few minutes got
hooked. Like this was this was the
craziest blow up from 100 stars to like
what 3,300 stars in a week. Um and I
think I merged 500 pull requests
already. That's why I feel like I even
merge button. So, so that that's why
that's why I'm I'm a little I'm a little
all over the place these days because
this project is blowing off and and and
you know the beauty of it is the
technology
disappears.
You just you just talk to a a friend on
your phone that is infinitely
resourceful, has access to your your
email, your calendar, your files, can
build websites for you, can like do
administrative work, can scrape
websites, can call your friends or can
call a business. I'm just about to to to
merge the call feature. It literally can
call a business and like make make a
reservation for you and you don't have
to think about compactation or or any
all of that context blends away. I have
like a I have a memory system that will
remember um not perfect. Nothing's
perfect yet, but it's already feels
magical. cuz all cuz cuz now I I walk
around, I see like this event, I I send
Claude a picture, it will it will not
only tell me the reviews of this event,
if there's a conflict in my calendar, if
like friends talked about it or, you
know, it has so much context that it the
responses that it can give me are like
so much better than like what any of the
the current tools that live in their own
little box can give me. Well, sounds
like you built whatever Apple was hoping
Siri to do, but they've been unable to.
>> I honestly I built the best marketing
tool for Entropic to sell them more
subscription. I don't know how many
people signed up for the $200
subscription because of Cloudbot and
like many people already had one and
used a second subscription because of
that because it's so token hungry. It's
not is not that it's token hunter. It's
just that people love it so much that
they use it all the time. And because
the technology blends away, they don't
see that it spawns sub agents and does
like a whole bunch of things in the
background to just make it feel easy.
But like there's some actual engineering
like there's a lot of work in the back
uh to make it feel easy. You know, this
is like the hard part. Like you hide
complexity
to a degree that it it it feels magical.
Well, but yeah, but this is interesting
because like I I I can sense from we're
talking, you know, you put so much
thought into architecting this thing and
right now like you've been building this
for a few months and yes, it blew up,
but in your head like do you have a
structure of how CloudBot is structured
like what parts you need to modify, you
know, like like you kind of you can get
your your mindset into it and you you
know where modification needs to do. You
know what you want to refactor because
it's not going to be efficient. Are you
thinking about like things like memory
consumption, token consumption,
efficiency, those kind of things?
>> I mean, token consumption is more like
how do how do you structure the prompt
and memory?
It's it's TypeScript that shows Jason
around in the end. Let's be honest. Like
like like I get text from from an LLM,
>> I save text to to disk. I send text to
WhatsApp or to now we have like MS
Teams, Slack, Discord, uh Signal,
iMessage, WhatsApp, and there's there's
two more that are landing like Metrics
that will will expand this thing even
further. It's like it's it's really poly
by now. But but mostly I I again I I
move around text in different shapes and
maybe maybe it goes to different
providers or there's like now it's
different agents and there's like the
agentic loop and there's like a lot of
configuration and there's it's it's a
lot of plumbing but nothing's there's
nothing in there that is really
difficult. Yeah. Well, but it's it's a
lot lot of small things, right? Like I I
feel in software, right? Like we we know
for software even before AI there was
not much difficult. Of course, you need
to learn and understand the language and
all that, but
>> the difficulty is how do I how do I make
it so that it feels magical. So, so what
I worked on a lot is now you have you
have this oneliner that you type in that
you python your command. I will I will
check if you have node installed
homebrew installed. I'll I'll install
the mpm package. I do some check if you
have any existing stuff just to like y
>> just to make it work simple even if you
already used an older version and
everything. and then I I'll guide you
through uh setting up a model. But
again, I will I will predict
or or claude installed. So you can just
press enter. So you don't have have to
think about it. Mostly just press enter
and then you want a WhatsApp, you type
in your number, it will just work again.
And then and then I'll ask you do you
want do you want to hatch your bot? And
you can press yes. And then and then
like a TUI a TUI comes up because you're
still in the terminal, right? You want a
good experience.
>> Yeah. So just a toy basically for that
and where you where you to see wake up
my friend and then the the I programmed
the model I added a bootstrap file and
the to explain the model that it is now
being born to like create an identity
and a in a in a in a soul where like the
values of the user are in and then the
model will be like hello like stretches
who are you um who are who I am what's
my name you know and this this is is
like I've watched people do it and
that's where the magic starts. That's
where that's where they're like they no
longer think about I'm talking to to
GPD4.2. No, I'm now talking to my friend
created Vajorn like a a unicorn with
part of his name or like I'm talking to
Claude. Uh and then it's like what
what's important to you? What do you do?
It's like curious. I I programmed it to
be like curious and then go through this
bootstrapping phase and then it will
actually delete the bootstrap file and
create a a user.md with like information
about you a soul.md with like all the
core values and an identity with the
like what's his name what's his core
emoji what are the things that are like
inside jokes and and but it's like
evolving documents that it will maintain
and like tweak as you interact with it
and then you it will just like send you
a message on on WhatsApp and you just
like suddenly you talk on WhatsApp like
making this flow easy. That was hard.
Yeah. Also like even even get coming up
with the idea of you know you you're not
you're not editing the configuration
because the agent can edit its own
configuration. You don't have to update
anything because the agent can update
itself. You can literally ask your bot
update yourself and it will fetch itself
and update itself and come back like hey
I have new features. Planning the
technical giveaway so far that's the
magic. That's why that's why I
>> But it feels it's very similar to what
you would with PSP PDF cut, right? You
kind of blended away the complexity of a
PDF. So it was just there. You could
rotate, you could do.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Even at the API level back
then,
>> but it's a it's a bit bizarre like what
what you described reminds me of this
Black Mirror episode I just watched,
which is called Play Thing. uh where
it's a it's a digital little uh creature
that creates of course it's black mirror
so it has a black
>> bit bit of a dark ending but but it it
had it was also a game. It also kind of
feels you know we talked about how you
you don't play as much games cuz you
like but this also feels a little bit
like a game, right? But it it's it's
kind of like more connected with
reality. Just fascinating how we're
we're we're here pulling back into the
the realm of of software engineering. So
you built this this product and it's now
it's a production software you're
merging porocas people are using it now
thinking back to PSPDF kit and and
companies that are like that which which
have you know like like tens or hundreds
of developers working on on production
software knowing what you know with how
you're building cloudbot and the tools
that you're using how do you think
software engineering at those larger
companies could change because one one
thing I see is is for individual people
like you it's like AI I is really really
hitting a fit like you're making you way
more productive. You're in control at
teams or at companies that are you know
have existing code. It's just a lot kind
of slower. It's it's not really okay
people use it for this or that but but
it it seems a huge divide between the
two worlds. And you've kind of been you
know CEO for this company. What what
might that be or is it just more of a
timing thing where every new technology
often comes with with hobists you know
pick it up uh earlier? I think companies
will have a really hard time adopting AI
efficiently because this also requires
to completely redefine how the company
works. You know, you know, you know like
you know like at Google they they tell
you you can either be an engineer or
like a manager but or you want to also
like define how the UI looks. That role
doesn't exist because either you like
you you build it or you you design it.
But this new world needs people that
that have a a product vision that that
that can be able to do everything and
you need like far fewer of them, but
ultimately
just very high agency and and and high
competency people. But you can you can
like probably like trim the company down
to like 30%. Which is very scary because
like I mean economically this will all
this will all lead into a fiasco. Um,
and a lot of people will like have
trouble finding a a place in this new
world, but
I'm not the least surprised that current
companies cannot very successfully use
AI. I mean, they do to a degree, but you
you have to do a big refactor first, you
know, like not just on your codebase,
but also on your company. I design even
on code bases I design the codebase not
so it's it's useful it's easy for me so
that it has to be easy for the agent I
optimize for different things not always
the things that I prefer but the things
I know work the best and and and have
the the least friction for those models
because I just want to move faster and
ultimately they have to deal with the
code not me I had I deal with the the
overall structure and architecture and I
can still do that in the way that I like
everything has to be resold you know
pull requests uh I see them more as
prompt requests Now, like I don't I I
somebody opens a pull request, I don't I
lot I do say thanks and I think about
the feature and then with my agent we
start off with the PR and then I'll
design the feature as I see fit. The
agent rarely reuses like maybe I reuse
some code but it's more like it gives
the agent a good understanding of what
the goal is and sometimes it's very
useful because it's it's tricky bucks,
right? But I I basically rewrite every
pull request and and and v it in also
also a lot of people let's just say the
overall code quality of of PRs went down
a lot because people vibe code and and
building a successful feature still
needs a lot of a lot of understanding of
your overall design and if you if you
cannot do that you will have a harder
time steering your agent and the output
will be bad.
>> Yeah. And if you don't have the feedback
loop to close it etc.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, so I found it highly
effective. Like I know at my at at PSVDF
kit sometimes a pull request was like a
week in the work
>> and you comment on it and then somebody
has to context switch and you wait for
CI for 40 minutes. No, I have the
discussion. I see okay how would this
affect something like I I I let the
model review. They will already bring
something up. I have some some ideas as
well. We're going to reshape it into a
form that fits my vision and then
we weave in the code. It's literally
there's so many new words I use for like
writing code now with those models which
is so funny like weaving in code into an
existing structure. Um and sometimes you
have to like change the structure so it
would fit. Now imagine that you would
hire one or two people to make it a
small team. How do you think in this
world and you keep want to keep doing
what you're doing? How do you think
things like code review CI CD would
change?
>> I don't I don't I don't care much about
CI. I
>> Why why not? you used to care a lot like
a PSPDF kid. You used to care a lot,
right?
>> And and I still do this. There's value,
>> but I I have local CI. I'm I'm a little
bit I'm a little bit of DAH now that
>> because because the agent runs the test,
right?
>> Yeah. And it's just way faster. I don't
I want to push on the on on the on the
back on the P and then wait for 10
minutes to wait for for CI
>> because you waited 10 minutes on the
agent already. I if if the tests pass
locally, we merge and then yes,
sometimes main slips a little bit, but
it's it's it's usually very close
because maybe sometimes I forget the and
the agents call it gate. I don't know
where that's coming from. Should I run
full gate? So now I call it gate with g
full gate is like linting and building
and and checking and running all the
tests. And I almost think it like
because it's a it's a wall, you know,
like it's like he calls the llinter and
like the builder and the tester. It's
almost like a gate before my code goes
out. So I know obviously like okay once
you're done like commit this run full
gate like I'm I'm slowly adopting their
language but but and if you hired like
one more person to work on this you
probably wouldn't do code reviews
either. That's what I'm sensing. You
would you'll probably trust this person
to run like like pick up your working
style, right?
>> Even in Discord, we don't we don't talk
code. We talk about architecture like
big decisions like you still need to
have style. Like there was like this one
pull request that adds voice calling. So
now like literally I can tell Claude,
hey, can you call this restaurant and
and and and reserve your seats and and
it it it can do that. But it it it's a
big it's quite a big new module that
like touches a lot of places. I'm like
you have to have this feeling is like
this like I got a little this is like I
want to merge this but oh this is
becoming bloatware. So I so I I had this
idea of like uh let's my typical way
let's make a CLI out of it and I already
had a project where I tried to solve
something like this but I'm finished. So
I opened up Codex and said, "Hey, look
at this PR. Look at this project. Could
we weave this feature in?" I again say
weave. I'm like, "So I'm
>> let's keep it.
>> Could we weave this feature into the
CLI? What are the up and downsides?" And
then would like tell me like, "Oh yeah,
I could do this and this and this." They
give me honest opinion. Would this to me
this sounds like it actually it would
fit into the project? I was like, and
was like, "Yeah, you would get this and
this benefits that we cannot do if the
next CLI." Okay, but I don't like this.
This is getting blowware. could we build
a plug-in architecture and then I will
and do you know like one of the the
secret hacks on on on
using effectively is you reference other
products like I constantly tell it look
into this folder because I solved it
there and I solved that there and all
the previous thinking I did to like
solve a problem well AI is so good at
this still to like read the code and
understand my ideas I don't have to like
explain it again uh or if I explained
again I might like make mistakes that
like wouldn't get across was exactly the
idea that I have in my head.
>> So in this case, I know that Mario who
does like shitty coding shitty coding
agent which is like a actually very much
not shitty coding agent. It's called Pi.
I know that he had this plug-in
architecture that would load
>> code via via GT and because it's all
TypeScript. So I was like, can you look
into this folder and this folder? And
then it just came up with this really
insanely good plug-in architecture again
by like being inspired by the people.
And then that's why, you know, I have
this feeling and then I I came up with
Yeah, that's what I built last night
basically. I mean, sounds like this is
going to be completely different like
you know PRs are are like in your
workflow, you're not using PRs that much
as CI is just different. It's it's tests
are still doing there's an more
important feedback loop. you're using
things more like weaving instead of
code. You're talking more about
architecture and taste. It sounds like a
pretty big shift to me. Now, in this
world, let's assume you get to the point
where you're going to you're hire the
next one and two and three developers on
this team. Let's imagine that this thing
gets a life of its own and you know,
maybe it's a business as well. What
skills would you look for? And what
would you advise a an experienced
engineer right now? Who would you be
excited to work with? kind of either
expertise
projects would you look for for someone
who sounds like who can work in this way
or can pick up this way of working?
>> Someone who's active on GitHub and does
open source and and someone where I have
the feeling that they they love the the
game. The way you learn in this new
world is by like trying stuff and it
very much feels like a game where you
improve your skills as you get better
like like a like a music instrument. you
have to like keep trying and I and I
that I'm now this efficient and this
fast and I don't know like I I think
like the other day I had like 600
commits in a single day. this is like
completely nuts and it works like it's
not it's not like there was there was a
somebody did a code review and said like
oh this is actually not slop and like
yeah uh
>> there's a lot of skill that went into
>> yeah it's it's it's it's a lot of hard
work but you need to play with the
technology and learn and then you will
get in the beginning it might be
frustrating I don't know kind of like
you you know you start going to the gym
it's going to suck it's going to be
painful
but very quickly you like you get better
and you and you feel that that your
workflow gets faster and then you feel
the improvements and then you slowly get
hooked. So So but yeah, play and and
yeah, also work hard.
>> Yeah, I I mean you're putting in more
hours into this thing.
>> I've never right now I've I've never I
never worked more even even when I had
my company. I I've never worked so hard
as I do now. Not because I have to, but
because it's so addictive and so much
fun, but also because right now I'm like
using the moment where where this has
traction and and there's a lot of people
who like are pushing me. Um, and I I
feel could it be cuz I think you have
pretty good business sense. Not not not
necessarily in the business business,
but seeing when there's an opportunity
there is an opening for to get traction,
right? Like what you said for people to
work in the open right now it seems
novel. You're telling me you don't think
you could, even if you wanted to hire,
you don't think you could hire people
cuz there's not many people working in
the open, clearly using these things.
Fast forward 2 or 3 years from now, once
a bunch of people start to do it and
everyone does it, it's kind of like moot
a little bit. So there there's also that
a group that a lot of lot of people are
worried about is the the new grads, the
the people with with no experience who
are either in school or about to
graduate because of course you've been
an experienced engineer by the time this
came around. you know, you have a lot of
things to build on. Putting that
yourself into shoes of of someone like
that and knowing what you know now, what
would you recommend of of activities
that they do, things that they build or
try and you know like do would you
recommend on focusing on the
fundamentals of software engineering on
this on the agents kind of mixing the
two?
>> I would I would recommend them to be
infinitely curious. Yes, it's going to
be harder to enter this market. It's
it's absolutely going to be harder and
you need to build things to like gain
experience. I don't think you need to
write a lot of code but you need to I
don't know you know there's a lot of
open source that is complex that you can
like check out and learn and you have an
infinitely patient machine that is able
to explain you all the things so you can
ask you can ask all questions why why
was it built this way to like gain
system understanding but it requires
real curiosity and I don't think
universities right now are set up to
teach you that in a in in a really good
way this is usually something you
discover through pain it's it's not
going to be easy for new people, but but
they have they have the benefit that
they are not tainted by all the
experience like they they they use
agents in ways that we don't even think
about again because they don't know that
it doesn't work and by then it probably
does
>> and also their friends use it all all
the time
>> especially like like the other day I I
have this little menu bar app for cost
tracking on on on on cursor and and and
cloud code and everything and it was a
bit slow. So I I was like, "Okay, let's
do let's do performance measurement."
And and my old way is like I open
instruments and click around. And it
would just call and do everything by the
terminal. It blew me away. I was like I
didn't even have to open instruments
anymore. And it just like made it
faster. And then did like some
recommendations. I'm like all of that
sounds good. Do it.
>> Yeah. I I think we might be
underestimating both like how
resourceful people entering tech have
been also how young people if I think
about some of the great companies
started they were very young and
obviously very inexperienced but had a
lot of passion so so that's there as
well yeah it's it's a big opportunity I
I'm especially taking in like it's I
have to take it in like but all the
things you mentioned about just your way
you know weaving code in not caring
about PR not caring about code reviews
it's a big change because these things
have been us with like again for like 15
plus years of your life they have been
in fact you know a lot of it has been
kind of you know solid building blocks
of PSPDF kit right yeah we need we need
a lot of new things even you know even
when I get a PR I'm actually more
interested in the prompts than in the
code I I ask people to please add the
prompts and some do and I I read the
prompts more than I read the code
because to me this is this is a way
higher signal of like how did you get to
the solution what did you actually ask
how much steering was involved then the
actual out to me this gives me more idea
about the output I don't have to read
the code or like if someone wants a
feature I ask for a prompt request like
write it up really well because then I
can just point my agent to the issue and
it will build it so because because the
the work is the thinking about how it
should work and what the details are and
if someone else does it for me I can
literally say build and it will work uh
and I and then yeah of course I think
about But it will will re really or if
someone sends me a PR that are just a
few fixes. I told people please don't do
that. It takes me 10 times more time to
to review that and just type in fix in
in in codex and wait a few minutes. So
there's there like all these insane
things that are like would have been
completely different
>> even even at the beginning. uh now we
have a oneliner but for the last two
weeks
like when it got really traction I told
people to just just point an agent at
the repository to configure it so so I
didn't had I didn't have an onboarding
but we had cloud codebased onboarding
where claude would like check out the G
repository read the things and write the
configuration for those people and set
everything up so it works like set up a
launch agent that didn't have the manual
setup because it was not a priority
anymore because because agents can now
do that for you and the and the and
since the the product was built by
agents. They structured it exactly the
way agents expect things to be named and
things. There's certain ways that are
encoded in in in the in the weights how
they expect things to be named and
everything exactly like how they expect.
So they are really good at navigating
their product. So it was not a priority
to work on onboarding as much. I mean
eventually I wanted this magical
experience but it was more important to
like make sure that your message arrives
and that things don't explode. So
onboarding was literally like type this
prompt into your agent. Um which is
would have been mind-blowing even a year
ago.
>> All right. So to to wrap up, we'll do
some rapid questions. So I'll just ask
and you tell me what's on your mind.
What's a tool that is not a CLI, not an
ID, it can be physical that you you use
you like you would recommend? I buy a
lot of gadgets and many of them dust
away. But there's this one kind of
crappy thing that was not expensive that
gives me almost unlimited amount of joy.
And it's like this Android powered photo
stand where I can upload pictures and
where like it has an email address and
friends can send pictures and it will
just show pictures. And I and I put a
few a few in in my house again. And I
mean even the animations are a little
croppy because it runs nward and it's
terrible from the technology but but it
gives me infinite number of joy because
it is low tech that just shows pictures
and reminds me of happy moments in my
life and it was like 200 bucks and I
don't know to be honest that gets me
more joy than the latest iPhone. I
bought the iPhone 17. I still haven't
unpacked it because I just in my head I
wanted it but then I couldn't get around
to it because it's just a hassle to like
move the Sims around and I said like
basically no no no no feelable benefit
but like this little this little device
gives me infinite joy.
>> What's something that helps you recharge
outside of tech like just or just moving
away from from tech and screens? What
keeps me sane, even if I work crazy
hours, is going to the gym, even better,
working with a a coach and leaving my
phone in the locker. And then I really
have like a good hour where
I just feel me and I and I'm like in the
moment and I'm not distracted by
notifications or tempted to like touch
my phone like we need more time for
this. Or even sometimes I I I go for a
walk and I I leave my phone at home and
it feels very scary. It's almost like a
it's almost like an organ now, you know?
It's like your your body knows where it
is and if you don't know where your
phone is, you freak out.
>> I I'm having I'm having a blast.
>> Love it. This is great, Pete. Thanks
very much. Well, this was a super
interesting conversation and it feels to
me that how one person teams built
software with AI is already completely
different to what we've been used to.
One thing that really caught my
attention is how Peter thinks in prompts
and not pull requests and how he weaves
in the code and no longer merges the
code. He doesn't find poll requests all
that useful and would rather get prompt
suggestions even on GitHub. I do think
we might have to rethink the importance
of prompts or at the very least sharing
of prompts in software development the
more we use AI and AI agents. Another
thing that struck with me was Peter's
emphasizing how important is to close
the loop. As Peter explained, the reason
AI is so good at coding but often
mediocre at writing is because you can
validate code. You can compile it, run
tests, check the output. So, the secret
to making AI system development work
well is to design your system to close
the loop and have the AI run the test.
Finally, I was wondering if Peter is in
the flow as much even when he's not
writing code. Turns out he is. He's in
the flow more than ever. And he told me
that it's mentally more exhausting to
juggle several AI agents in parallel
than it was just to write code. My
feeling is that someone who was a great
developer without AI can be an excellent
kind of code architecture or carding
person with AI. This is just a gut
feeling I've had so far, but Peter seems
to prove it. Finally, we should note
that Clawbot is more of a YOLO project
than most production apps. So, take the
approaches that we discussed with a
grain of salt. At the same time, I do
think that a lot of what Peter does
could well spread to building production
code, except review and validation will
become a much more important step in
those projects. If you enjoy this
podcast, please do subscribe on your
favorite podcast platform and on
YouTube. A special thank you if you also
leave a rating on the show. Thanks and
see you in the next one.